---
ID: 756
post_title: DZ-50
author: draftzero
post_excerpt: ""
layout: page
permalink: http://draft-zero.com/dz-50/
published: true
post_date: 2018-04-19 22:12:59
---
# Dz-50 - Antagonists! (Part 2) - Vs Self {#title}

<p id="info">
  Computer-generated transcript.
</p> Edit it on GitHub: 

<https://github.com/Draft-Zero-Podcast/dz-transcripts/blob/master/DZ-50.vtt> Draft Zero: a screenwriting podcast <a href="http://www.draft-zero.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener">http://www.draft-zero.com</a> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W6DnLLkV0zo 
## Transcript {#chapter}

**Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[0:00]</small> <span title="0:00 - 0:11">And that's something we should have pointed out of the beginning and maybe we should point out the beginning buy you anything this and say about Little Miss Sunshine yourself and part of the reason that herself is it there is a lack of a Cleveland.</span> <span title="0:13 - 0:14">As we all go into.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[0:22]</small> <span title="0:22 - 0:24">Hi I'm Chas Fisher.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[0:24]</small> <span title="0:24 - 0:25">And I'm Stu Willis.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[0:25]</small> <span title="0:25 - 0:31">And welcome to Draft Zero a podcast way to Aussie filmmakers try to work out what makes great scream players work.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[0:31]</small> <span title="0:31 - 0:34">Any Miss episode part 2,</span> 
## Intro: Vs Self {#chapter}

<small style="opacity: 0.5;">[0:34]</small> <span title="0:34 - 0:48">we are trying to work out what makes great antagonistic forces work this is part 2 of a series on forces of antagonism if you ever listened to part one we really recommend you start there otherwise you might get a little bit lost.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[0:48]</small> <span title="0:48 - 0:51">Because we're just going to make references to stuff that you haven't heard.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[0:51]</small> <span title="0:51 - 1:01">Any Miss part of an episode we are going to be talking about self we going to talk about where the antagonistic force is the self against,</span> <span title="1:01 - 1:08">broadly speaking the protagonist but it could be the main character could be the point of view character it could be I don't know.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:08]</small> <span title="1:08 - 1:17">1 important sit there a distinction I am going to reiterate from last episode is we did distinguish between antagonist as.</span> <span title="1:18 - 1:28">Being an obstacle that creates conflict and and as a antagonist I mean antagonistic forces and antagonist as a force of change on.</span> <span title="1:29 - 1:30">Protagonist.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:30]</small> <span title="1:30 - 1:34">I am your antagonistic oils.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:34]</small> <span title="1:34 - 1:48">My point being the three films that we decided to look at it as get me many times as we got a huge list of films to reference but the three films were going to explore in detail from the lens of how.</span> <span title="1:49 - 1:54">The protagonist himself is the main source of antagonistic force are.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:54]</small> <span title="1:54 - 2:00">Little Miss Sunshine Shane Monster and if you get to it will talk a little bit about the TV series mindhunters.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:59]</small> <span title="1:59 - 2:01">Are we gonna do them in that order.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[2:00]</small> <span title="2:00 - 2:05">Yeah I mean to me sometimes in Campbelltown.</span> <span title="2:07 - 2:13">Where I would like to start because I think this is an important Distinction is it there is a category of found in which,</span> <span title="2:13 - 2:22">the internal conflict the vs Self conflict is externalised quite literally in a secondary character so in Fight Club,</span> <span title="2:22 - 2:31">there is dirt Jack and there is Tyler durden that is about the inner conflict between Jack and tornado and then he's manifested exceptionally,</span> <span title="2:31 - 2:40">notably with Tyler durden being Brad Pitt you know the manifestation of his kind of inner desires of who wants me but also Black Swan.</span> <span title="2:40 - 2:44">The internal conflict of Natalie Portman character whose name gave me.</span> <span title="2:45 - 2:55">Is um whether it's hurting me with mental illness all the pressure is have a job is manifested in another character in inside out the internal conflicts of the girl.</span> <span title="2:55 - 3:09">I manifested in Iron Man movies Cage's and I get like home and head before that just like inside out for adults like the conflict of Hermans was manifested with all these cases cause I think what is challenging about this what was challenge about this topic,</span> <span title="3:08 - 3:16">is the bees and every all getting the detail of that when you are dealing on a dramatise screen story.</span> <span title="3:16 - 3:31">If you were dealing with internal conflicts that you have to find ways to traumatise it which means that you end up putting things out to external complex weather there pot complex what character complex he's out these internal storage kind of a category of.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[3:31]</small> <span title="3:31 - 3:37">The most of you genre that relates to self is the addiction movie which is kind of,</span> <span title="3:37 - 3:49">you know thinking Leaving Las Vegas or postcards for the edge or presentation Cage's dealing with their addiction but their addiction becomes a form it creates the obstacles and creates the.</span> <span title="3:49 - 3:55">The forces of change for these characters to either submit to their addiction or to overcome.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[3:55]</small> <span title="3:55 - 4:08">Weather thing they have to come over come while they may still be external sources of antagonist that either inspire them or push them back into their addiction what they have to overcome as themselves.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[4:08]</small> <span title="4:08 - 4:16">We have decided to not really only look at those films because they ultimately if you external I can fight club.</span> <span title="4:16 - 4:23">Text analyse that struggle to Tyler durden coming antagonist really it's a VS.</span> <span title="4:23 - 4:32">Human story like the weight dramatically the destroyed works and in terms of the way you structure your sequences in your scenes and the dramatic questions you ask but come.</span> <span title="4:33 - 4:45">Becoming a person that's completely Gin and I trying to say it's the wrong way to do it it's just that they sold their dramatisation Problems by kinda pushing into another Style,</span> <span title="4:45 - 4:54">and as we will get to what is interesting as in the vs nature films the way they manifest the internal character stuff is through or off and through.</span> <span title="4:55 - 5:04">Environmental factors so we'll try this kind of left us with a little bit more of it in between Meadows genre of stories where the,</span> <span title="5:04 - 5:13">character question drove the story to be internal conflict of the characters drove the story but was not externalising to quite the same extent.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[5:13]</small> <span title="5:13 - 5:15">Yes.</span> 
## Little Miss Sunshine {#chapter}

**Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[5:15]</small> <span title="5:15 - 5:16">Mister Maker Miss Sunshine.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[5:52]</small> <span title="5:52 - 6:05">Sunshine.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[6:08]</small> <span title="6:08 - 6:15">I think look I think it's interesting because it's it's not a bit while first put flight it but it's also not a film.</span> <span title="6:15 - 6:25">That I think most people would think of because it's an ensemble moving because it's a comedy where most of the antagonistic forces are actually.</span> <span title="6:25 - 6:27">Sprouting from.</span> <span title="6:28 - 6:36">The protagonist himself and I say himself deliberately because in the context of this film it's the Greg Kinnear character if we looking.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[6:36]</small> <span title="6:36 - 6:37">Richard.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[6:37]</small> <span title="6:37 - 6:42">Richard yeah if we looking at protagonist as.</span> <span title="6:42 - 6:52">From the very specific definition of who takes the first action and who drives the plot it is Richard who makes all the decisions.</span> <span title="6:52 - 7:02">The drive the plot he gets to choose whether they go to the Little Miss Sunshine pageant he decides to drive off and visit that.</span> <span title="7:03 - 7:07">Publisher horror members name play by Bryan Cranston he.</span> <span title="7:08 - 7:21">Famously is the one that decides to kidnap his fathers dead body from the hospital and drive off and finally he's the one who decides to get up on stage and dance with his daughter.</span> <span title="7:21 - 7:28">Piercing control the part that's not to say that it is in an ensemble film where every other character has.</span> <span title="7:28 - 7:37">You know wonderful journeys and moments I think possibly Toni Collette is the only one that the only character that's the his wife is.</span> <span title="7:37 - 7:47">Really poorly serviced by the film but in that film nearly business so many obstacles I mean wonderfully is.</span> <span title="7:47 - 7:48">The car.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[7:49]</small> <span title="7:49 - 7:51">The Garrett song.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[7:50]</small> <span title="7:50 - 7:58">The vet did they come as they go driving starts breaking down to the point that they can't actually stop the car.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[8:00]</small> <span title="8:00 - 8:12">So what did you know this this all bosses you don't need the clutch to change from from the 3rd to the 4th you only really need the clutch to go from number 1 to number.</span> <span title="8:13 - 8:23">As long as you keep forgetting 24 hour you start and then you go for 34.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[8:24]</small> <span title="8:24 - 8:27">What if you're not on a hill.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[8:45]</small> <span title="8:45 - 8:51">But I do like loops around buildings and things Lygon has to run in and get in and then.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[8:51]</small> <span title="8:51 - 8:55">Put the movie Speed it was the BIG W that couldn't slow down.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[8:52]</small> <span title="8:52 - 9:00">And then and then the horn breaks and the horn is constantly going off.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[8:58]</small> <span title="8:58 - 9:03">You cut me off.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[9:03]</small> <span title="9:03 - 9:11">To the point where the horn breaking down gets the police get attract the attention of a highway patrol to pull them over.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[9:20]</small> <span title="9:20 - 9:23">The pull the motor when they got the dead body wake up.</span> <span title="9:24 - 9:28">Of fair isle of his dad in the back of the car,</span> <span title="9:28 - 9:39">example with a force of antagonism VW itself but that only came into being that force of antagonism actually float from Grand Canyon absolute.</span> <span title="9:39 - 9:46">Meat box movies want to put his daughter to prove his theories about I don't know.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[9:45]</small> <span title="9:45 - 9:46">Winners and Losers.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[9:46]</small> <span title="9:46 - 9:48">Winners and losers correct.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[9:48]</small> <span title="9:48 - 10:03">I mean that that's the thing like the his whole character journey is trying to set up a career as a writer and content creator and you know motivational speaker around a self help program but there is 7.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[10:03]</small> <span title="10:03 - 10:05">Not doing very well himself.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[10:04]</small> <span title="10:04 - 10:09">His 7 Step Program defines everyone as winners or losers.</span> <span title="10:09 - 10:23">And in which he is constantly measuring people as winners or losers and yet as you say you know the irony is he's constantly losing but he's making all of his decisions based on would a winner do this all would a loser do this.</span> <span title="10:23 - 10:26">In his within his paradigm.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[10:25]</small> <span title="10:25 - 10:40">So it's much as you say coming back to walk to him out in part one as much as you can say he's the protagonist of this story he's also the antagonist because he's journey by dragging in the rest of his family forces them to also clinic confront their own.</span> <span title="10:40 - 10:41">Issues.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[10:41]</small> <span title="10:41 - 10:42">Yep but.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[10:42]</small> <span title="10:42 - 10:55">I like I like it like a magazine subscription every day to hear the number of issues at least I'm so as you say the only one that is the only one that kind of need.</span> <span title="10:56 - 11:05">Fixing you know that she's only one without a clearly defined wound or a heel.</span> <span title="11:05 - 11:13">We don't really like this guy so you've got Steve Carell playing Frank who is he.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[11:13]</small> <span title="11:13 - 11:15">Her brother correct.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[11:15]</small> <span title="11:15 - 11:21">So he's closer to her her pay to win is another character.</span> <span title="11:22 - 11:32">And Frank is had a bad a relationship you know he had a crush on an undergraduate one of his no graduate students student's purchase on students.</span> <span title="11:32 - 11:36">And that backfired and that's when it went off with another Professor Aaron.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[11:36]</small> <span title="11:36 - 11:46">The boy that I was in love with in love with another man very sugar Maclary sugarman very Sugar Man is perhaps the second most highly regarded to score in the US.</span> <span title="11:46 - 11:52">Eat me rich.</span> <span title="11:52 - 12:05">That's fine I would happen once I was a bit upset so I said some things that I shouldn't have said I did some things that I shouldn't have done it such a belly I was fired from my job and forced to move out of my apartment tour.</span> <span title="12:06 - 12:19">And that's when you tried to actually happened was 2 days ago the Macarthur foundation in its infinite wisdom awarded a Genius Grant O'Leary sugar.</span> <span title="12:20 - 12:28">That's when I decided to check out early.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[12:28]</small> <span title="12:28 - 12:36">So that's his thing is dealing with that issue then you've got Paul Dano playing Dwayne which is satoshi.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[12:35]</small> <span title="12:35 - 12:38">Tourniquet person from another marriage.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[12:38]</small> <span title="12:38 - 12:44">Yes he's going to read in each is taking a shower of then save me silence mutism.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[12:44]</small> <span title="12:44 - 12:49">As he's as he's trying to prepare to join the Airforce ugly.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[12:48]</small> <span title="12:48 - 13:02">Yes and then you've got a live which is the daughter who's the one who wants to be the beauty queen and they set up in such a way that we kinda guy yeah she's not necessary the beauty queen type and then you've got Alan arkin,</span> <span title="13:02 - 13:11">playing Edward who's the aforementioned soon to be dead father of Richard who is a recovering addict drug addict.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[13:11]</small> <span title="13:11 - 13:19">Well not I don't know he's not know he's been kicked out of the nursing home because he's been using drugs.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[13:18]</small> <span title="13:18 - 13:33">What happened at sunset Mountain Creek in a heroin,</span> <span title="13:33 - 13:38">what's up achillea what am I an idiot I don't use that take an HR when you're young.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[13:38]</small> <span title="13:38 - 13:44">He sing the end of his life and he wants to have sex with as many women as you can and do as much cocaine is.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[13:44]</small> <span title="13:44 - 13:46">Haven't even to heroin but whatever.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[13:46]</small> <span title="13:46 - 13:49">Is that ok sorry.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[13:49]</small> <span title="13:49 - 13:53">The point is they each have clearly a major have clearly defined problems.</span> <span title="13:54 - 13:59">That they need to overcome by the end of the film and their internal their of their own making,</span> <span title="14:00 - 14:12">even Paul Danos a the main character appears to be an external thing which is the his goal is to be in the air force that soon manifested a 7.3 that his problem is internal because he's.</span> <span title="14:13 - 14:23">Colour blind that's a plot think that he's better playing around with some things me realise is that he's call by which means he's not going into the air force and so it is internal thing is one of my going to do with myself.</span> <span title="14:23 - 14:24">Right.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[14:24]</small> <span title="14:24 - 14:30">Well part of it is also the root one of the reasons it becomes clear that he wants to join the Airforce is just to escape his family.</span> <span title="14:31 - 14:40">And you know one of his internal his internal Johnny is actually to come and embrace his family for such as they are.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[14:39]</small> <span title="14:39 - 14:45">And Richards thing is get given up on picking up people was Winners and Losers.</span> <span title="14:46 - 14:55">I guess cause I think the idea is he actually probably feels himself is a sore loser and Matt that's kind of his his want.</span> <span title="14:55 - 15:07">Is to publish his book and be a winner in his is needed to accept himself which actually all of these Cage's just need to accept to themselves I mean the quote Edwin is the most,</span> <span title="15:07 - 15:13">he doesn't super had a journey Kai becomes a force of and becomes a force of antagonism when he dies.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[15:13]</small> <span title="15:13 - 15:18">Yeah but he's also a force of antagonism constantly like his is transgressive.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[15:20]</small> <span title="15:20 - 15:33">I know you're home I know but maybe you can appreciate this you gotta love those places this for women Gravity Guy can you imagine what that's like you must be very busy I had 2nd degree burns I tried to let you know.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[15:33]</small> <span title="15:33 - 15:43">Who we got an excellent summary here of what their wants and needs are and how the journey itself as well as + obstacles.</span> <span title="15:43 - 15:50">Forces them to move away from their wine and address their character need but the reason why we're doing this,</span> <span title="15:50 - 15:59">episode here and not in the vs humans is nearly all of the plot obstacles are created by Richard and his.</span> <span title="15:59 - 16:02">Journey is entirely,</span> <span title="16:02 - 16:15">you know that the thing that he has to overcome is himself he is the obstacle to his own happiness so not only does his approach like create the plot obstacles that he has to overcome there also his own internal character quest.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[16:15]</small> <span title="16:15 - 16:21">And what he says to olive is at the beginning he's basically.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[16:22]</small> <span title="16:22 - 16:30">There is no sense in entering contest if you don't think you're better so do you think you can have me and I'll Miss Sunshine.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[16:40]</small> <span title="16:40 - 16:43">There's no point going unless you think you can win this thing.</span> <span title="16:43 - 16:56">Right then he ends up putting a lot of pressure on her that ultimately build up at the m where he or she thinks he thinks and she thinks that she can't when compared to all the other Kinder unfortunely hypersexualised.</span> <span title="16:56 - 16:58">I'm pretty girls.</span> <span title="17:00 - 17:14">As do with a patent and we can't even know that he was thinking that and he's got doubts because I need to prove yourself family which I guess is part of it he's want is to prove we need is depression something from the family but he doesn't get it being what he wants,</span> <span title="17:14 - 17:21">he he ultimately proves himself to his family by getting up and dancing with olive at the end.</span> <span title="17:21 - 17:24">That's how a prison cell Swiss family and that's a.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[17:26]</small> <span title="17:26 - 17:36">But he's not trying to prove himself to his family he gives up on winning and losing and measures it by the sheer joy of dancing to Superfreak.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[17:35]</small> <span title="17:35 - 17:40">Get a matter we actually succeeding you know like the Chinese finger trap you know.</span> <span title="17:41 - 17:47">Giving up on trying to him impress them he actually wins them over and wins them all over make some comfortable.</span> <span title="17:48 - 18:01">In terms of service herself so whatever about this him as you say there's all these obstacles do with a VW when and then what what do they do when when Alan arkin characters die how they had to smuggle amount of a vehicle I thought,</span> <span title="18:01 - 18:09">write any fun plot obstacles but the character obstacles are set up really early and Richards,</span> <span title="18:09 - 18:18">hard questions like a book character obstacle is ghetto wheel he.</span> <span title="18:18 - 18:33">Is a hard one particular which makes it which makes me makes me feel coming back to our sequence questions episode makes it feel that he is a character question because when we see him in that room giving my true about being a winner on we cut and then we cut to the audience it's very small life like.</span> <span title="18:34 - 18:46">You're the guy when are you going to realise it maybe you're one of all users that they're talking about all when are you going to become a winner it's winner It's a Hard Thing to ejaculate and because it's a hard thing articulators what action make that pay off.</span> <span title="18:46 - 18:51">Happen again because it's about him accepting who is you know who his family is.</span> <span title="18:53 - 18:56">He needs to learn the subtle art of not giving a fuck that's really want.</span> <span title="18:57 - 19:03">Today definitely a vanity to him is bowling alley want to be perceived.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[19:02]</small> <span title="19:02 - 19:09">He is brought a before he becomes to embrace at his low point which is.</span> <span title="19:10 - 19:22">Very closely tied to the low point of the film which is the farthest Grandpa's death he's low point is realising that his publishing opportunity is never going to happen.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[19:22]</small> <span title="19:22 - 19:23">Stan Grossman you.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[19:26]</small> <span title="19:26 - 19:38">Stan you're the one that's what I thought.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[19:40]</small> <span title="19:40 - 19:41">No one's.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[19:41]</small> <span title="19:41 - 19:44">He is a loser and so.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[19:44]</small> <span title="19:44 - 19:46">Or his I prefer to think of all the way.</span> <span title="19:47 - 19:54">Said University trying to make a deal with Walter White briefly put it back in Motion.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[19:54]</small> <span title="19:54 - 20:09">He is confrontation his internal question he gets confront of the fact that I am a loser so what value what do I drive for in life now that I am the very thing that I'm trying to teach people not to be any fines value elsewhere.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[20:10]</small> <span title="20:10 - 20:17">And it's manifested an antagonist wants to configure seekins antagonists right once they actually arrived.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[20:17]</small> <span title="20:17 - 20:19">The pageant.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[20:18]</small> <span title="20:18 - 20:30">Pageant there is the pageant on it so I don't know what name she's barely she's just a villain and she's the one who wants to stop I'll leave dancing to Superfreak with this kind slightly stripped easy.</span> <span title="20:30 - 20:34">Dance fit hilariously,</span> <span title="20:33 - 20:48">Arkham character Edwin had chiropractor and she said that at the getting the preteen that the other girls doing a car more disturbing,</span> <span title="20:48 - 20:58">is have a presenting themselves and said she operates as an antagonist cause at that point of the film The cases and no longer port.</span> <span title="20:58 - 21:06">Richard's ultimate I'm going to resolve these issues but even Frank and Dwayne kind of resolve their internal issues Olive,</span> <span title="21:06 - 21:19">really I think that point she does dgaf and that kind of her Johnny is it she has to realise that she her desire to win the beauty pageant ultimately is less important than her wanting to be herself.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[21:19]</small> <span title="21:19 - 21:31">Yeah I think I'm not sure if she has that she's almost like the the dramatisation of Richards problems in that you know she she's just a girl.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[21:28]</small> <span title="21:28 - 21:33">Cheap bike to Tyler durden to his Jack.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[21:37]</small> <span title="21:37 - 21:43">Loser loser loser.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[21:44]</small> <span title="21:44 - 21:55">How do you spell zeros back up a minute you know what a loser is a real loser is somebody that's so afraid of Mount winning they don't even try.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[21:56]</small> <span title="21:56 - 22:05">The triad right we can have fun tomorrow.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[22:07]</small> <span title="22:07 - 22:16">You know talking about key scenes is actually a scene where it almost the entire plot of the film plays out which is in a diner in the middle where she wants to order ice cream.</span> <span title="22:17 - 22:24">And her dad starts trying to encourage me basically tries to fat shame her saying.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[22:23]</small> <span title="22:23 - 22:36">You want to ok ok but I live obviously this goes women and Miss America they skinnier.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[22:38]</small> <span title="22:38 - 22:53">Honey can I use your ice cream on the way back with you I was in the same.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[22:54]</small> <span title="22:54 - 23:02">Does anyone want ice cream.</span> <span title="23:03 - 23:16">Smoking to have a range here do you mind if I have a little bit let's do him,</span> <span title="23:16 - 23:24">his wife is it going to be awful log in.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[23:30]</small> <span title="23:30 - 23:39">Anyway that plays out all the beats of the entire film other than you don't get the beat we Richard Richard loses but he doesn't join in.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[23:39]</small> <span title="23:39 - 23:45">At the end of the film is everyone out wow he's the first one to kinda ice cream in a way we just to Dad tomorrow.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[23:44]</small> <span title="23:44 - 23:48">Yeah exactly absolutely I mean look kids,</span> <span title="23:48 - 24:02">it's a bit if we haven't made this clear it's a wonderful movie but I just the reason why we chose it is unlike the next to film shame and monster it's interesting that we can pinpoint a movie what is an ensemble.</span> <span title="24:03 - 24:06">Almost borderline fast in terms of.</span> <span title="24:06 - 24:14">So many mini putt obstacles in there beware the primary antagonist to the protagonist is himself.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[24:14]</small> <span title="24:14 - 24:27">Wonderful thought that popped into my head is you know we did three billboards in the previous part and those characters are all kinds of the antagonist to each other and that they're forcing change in the sunshine in some ways.</span> <span title="24:27 - 24:35">Greg Richard Richard is the antagonist in that by choosing to take my history he's forcing them to change but what is interesting is,</span> <span title="24:35 - 24:45">you fight the character antagonist in that he's forcing the cage to change but their internal obstacles or whatever they need to overcome their character wins for Dwayne and Frank.</span> <span title="24:45 - 24:56">And maybe Oliver maybe Edwin is Internet there at the internal optical so I haven't not clearly articulated and then maybe the next two examples will help us.</span> <span title="24:57 - 25:08">Like that but maybe there can be something that there's an internal optical but an external antagonist to the force of changes external but the obstacle itself is in Turner.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[25:08]</small> <span title="25:08 - 25:10">Yeah I mean yeah absolutely.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[25:10]</small> <span title="25:10 - 25:19">I think Shane actually is that maybe we should do shame shame next because I think he's what he needs overcome.</span> 
## Shame {#chapter}

<small style="opacity: 0.5;">[25:20]</small> <span title="25:20 - 25:22">His obstacle is in town.</span> <span title="25:23 - 25:33">I mean what we really talking about is obstacles that these antagonistic forces in his broad categories of conflict vs nature vs cell vs a human.</span> <span title="25:33 - 25:38">The society is the obstacles not the forces of Change.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[25:38]</small> <span title="25:38 - 25:49">Yeah I'm just saying and will get into this in in shame I think you've got a scene you want to talk about and I've got to see that I want to talk about where I think the antagonistic force in my scene.</span> <span title="25:50 - 25:59">Is very clearly an inspiration to change she's not an obstacle to anything it's other than to his addiction.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[26:00]</small> <span title="26:00 - 26:06">Speaking of addiction films we are doing shame it which is a film about a.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[26:06]</small> <span title="26:06 - 26:08">Fassbender penis.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[26:08]</small> <span title="26:08 - 26:10">Michael fastmember.</span> <span title="26:11 - 26:25">Just a heads up the chain is a film deals with sex addiction in the film itself is quite sexually explicit so I Gotta Feeling out of cash I might dear into that Territory as well plus the except themselves so if you want to.</span> <span title="26:25 - 26:31">Skip ahead to the next film it is Monster please use the tap the button on your Podcast Player.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[26:50]</small> <span title="26:50 - 27:04">Good doing some work do you want to.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[27:38]</small> <span title="27:38 - 27:42">It was all out of Michael's last name but Brandon is his name.</span> <span title="27:43 - 27:51">He lived a life of ritual and that is clearly set up in the first date which is the basically goes out of has sex with prostitutes a masturbate soon,</span> <span title="27:51 - 27:58">what's the pornography in men in the film uses visual storytelling in a great way to set this up and,</span> <span title="27:58 - 28:08">but even I guess that's moment of him on there the train worry it's incredibly simply shot found but we make eye contact with woman is but it's very sensual and very sexual.</span> <span title="28:09 - 28:18">But that's intercut with the rest of his rich wisdom that we see it not as a moment of only inciting incident him saying is married woman I'm trying.</span> <span title="28:18 - 28:32">In fact because of the way the stories told around it we get the sense that this is a Liberty will do every time that he will see someone he likes them all praise him chasing after her is an indication of that and that we get the sense very early on,</span> <span title="28:32 - 28:36">that he is a slave to his exhibition addiction.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[28:36]</small> <span title="28:36 - 28:42">I mean to the point that he's masturbating in the office and.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[28:41]</small> <span title="28:41 - 28:45">It's a fact clearly affecting his work performance that taking his computer.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[28:46]</small> <span title="28:46 - 28:55">You know what's going on with my computer and I have someone go to call me.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[28:57]</small> <span title="28:57 - 28:58">I'm gonna virus.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[28:58]</small> <span title="28:58 - 29:04">Implication of the time being because he's you know got pornography and probably installed stuff on at all.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[29:04]</small> <span title="29:04 - 29:06">I mean that that is the one.</span> <span title="29:06 - 29:15">I think plot question in a very character driven film the only kind of question is Will his.</span> <span title="29:15 - 29:24">What are the ramifications of his work computer coming back no doubt loaded with porn it's the only kind of sort of hanging.</span> <span title="29:24 - 29:27">Nice I don't know what you call it ticking clock.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[29:27]</small> <span title="29:27 - 29:34">I'm I couldn't I kind of think the pot there is a pocket with the Arrival with his sister but it's not.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[29:33]</small> <span title="29:33 - 29:40">So what what what do I do tell me articulate the plot question of the arrival of his sister.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[29:38]</small> <span title="29:38 - 29:46">Not your right to support question as close is it because there is a question which is what will her arrival do to his life.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[29:45]</small> <span title="29:45 - 29:49">But that's an internal question really.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[29:48]</small> <span title="29:48 - 29:59">It's not a question that's got a clear which we talk about him and sequences episode so interesting to keep on coming back to that the idea what any key identify as of a question is it I've got to come here.</span> <span title="29:59 - 30:06">Demonstrate able whether it's dramatic or visual answer right him having his computer taken.</span> <span title="30:06 - 30:11">Because they found stuff on it is got it clear demonstrator ball outcome.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[30:11]</small> <span title="30:11 - 30:12">Willy be fired on.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[30:12]</small> <span title="30:12 - 30:16">Her arrival.</span> <span title="30:16 - 30:31">And that's a really useful thing will come to talk about the specifics things because I think the overall plot with him thing is addiction is ultimately the character question is will Brandon recognise the destructive destructive.</span> <span title="30:31 - 30:34">That is there at that point there's no.</span> <span title="30:35 - 30:49">My other sock you the sense of it's affecting his work so the idea of one of the Tells of an addiction is that it becomes a behaviour the Dominator bye bye hater so you give up and other things like such as work to.</span> <span title="30:49 - 30:50">Give in to your addiction.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[30:50]</small> <span title="30:50 - 30:57">Asim azhar introduction to the scene that you want to talk about I think one of the reasons why it is not seen as overly.</span> <span title="30:57 - 31:09">Destructive is not painted as a good way but he seems to be functioning and seems to be relatively happy if isolated but I didn't want of the reasons why.</span> <span title="31:10 - 31:18">Comes off that way is to fold one they've casted might cool they cost Michael Fassbender to his boss.</span> <span title="31:19 - 31:32">Despite not being or not the whereoware being is a sex addict is a is a worse representation of toxic masculinity then Brandon the sex addict.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[31:32]</small> <span title="31:32 - 31:35">So yeah I want to speak my lesson because this is a,</span> <span title="31:35 - 31:45">very cartigen something that the questions was largely resolve around catering it feels what is very intensities in terms of character and Brandon,</span> <span title="31:44 - 31:51">when I Brandon will confront the truth of who it is but it's not questioning will let you know.</span> <span title="31:52 - 32:01">Will they defeat Hans Gruber juice example first episode off then I will offer you a windy beauty pageant at 5 o'clock question for a Little Miss Sunshine.</span> <span title="32:01 - 32:08">Methods like more bakery to do with like Brandon recognising is his sex addiction and what he's going to do about it.</span> <span title="32:09 - 32:22">He said do it after this thing in a little bit his sister arrives and that comes in signing answer the middle part of a famine that is kind of weapon gets a little bit more bloody but not so much it's not really heavy stuff.</span> <span title="32:22 - 32:28">This thing is quite till like to grow and that's because David.</span> <span title="32:28 - 32:32">Friends bus they're out for drinks that had a successful pitch.</span> <span title="32:33 - 32:41">And friends there and they just having a good time because it's been successful in David sees a group of women having sitting at the bar and it's like I'm in it.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[32:41]</small> <span title="32:41 - 32:55">Motorbike physical township 54321 boom 125 clutch setup.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[32:55]</small> <span title="32:55 - 33:03">David goes in talk to this girl and he's constantly feeling like he's being a chump.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[33:04]</small> <span title="33:04 - 33:17">Hey listen I want to be around the bush I think you're absolutely gorgeous my name is David Elizabeth I have a drink how about you.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[33:17]</small> <span title="33:17 - 33:22">I didn't look he's trying to buy their interest.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[33:22]</small> <span title="33:22 - 33:23">Hero 6.</span> <span title="33:24 - 33:33">Attention to detail and I like I like this game.</span> <span title="33:34 - 33:43">Drink drink drink from the cold how do you do that so quickly it's amazing it's amazing.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[33:43]</small> <span title="33:43 - 33:50">And he guess is wrongly and that's just a clear indication that he wasn't paying attention to her didn't notice her.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[33:49]</small> <span title="33:49 - 33:57">She is an appointment she offers the question that she has shown as like I say characters she is.</span> <span title="33:57 - 34:11">Got agency in her life I think that's good that she's as much as she's the objective David's desire that I like the way that they write her is no there's the sense that there's something under the surface but it's important because I think in some ways.</span> <span title="34:11 - 34:23">We can have a baby at this a thing in some ways this scene is David has a protagonist using to hit on a woman in a woman being an auntie in a romantic comedy this would that's how this thing would go.</span> <span title="34:23 - 34:29">But this isn't a thing about David at this is the same about Brandon.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[34:29]</small> <span title="34:29 - 34:30">What important.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[34:30]</small> <span title="34:30 - 34:31">This is a female brain.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[34:31]</small> <span title="34:31 - 34:36">Brandon is not driving this seen nor does he have any wants or needs in this scene.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[34:37]</small> <span title="34:37 - 34:45">Buddhist end up going up to them realising like answering the question about her eyes is good looking accurate.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[34:42]</small> <span title="34:42 - 34:51">Answering it accurately because he thought for all of his addiction he notices people or at least women.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[34:51]</small> <span title="34:51 - 34:59">Cleaning games from buckle.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[35:01]</small> <span title="35:01 - 35:06">He just called me and we had no way.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[35:06]</small> <span title="35:06 - 35:13">He pays almost too much tension and we've got it got back when he's making eye contact with the woman with it with the engagement ring.</span> <span title="35:13 - 35:21">Close ups in her eyes and her legs so obviously attentive and makes people feel I've got a tension in squid that she likes him.</span> <span title="35:22 - 35:24">Insane.</span> <span title="35:24 - 35:36">I mean ultimately David keeps on basically being an average guy and they win and go off and Brandon put David in a cab and sends davidoff.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[35:36]</small> <span title="35:36 - 35:38">OK I'll see you tomorrow.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[35:37]</small> <span title="35:37 - 35:43">And brain is walking along with the woman at the club pulls up in her car and says hey do you want a lift.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[35:43]</small> <span title="35:43 - 35:46">What arrived.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[35:51]</small> <span title="35:51 - 35:53">Eventually they have sex.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[35:55]</small> <span title="35:55 - 35:58">Not on a quiet street against the wall.</span> <span title="35:58 - 36:11">And it's interesting to me because you couldn't some ways a brand of kind of the antagonist in the same but I think it's actually more of it like his two days of it so the woman I don't think brand is the protagonists nothing at all.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[36:11]</small> <span title="36:11 - 36:12">Yeah absolutely not.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[36:12]</small> <span title="36:12 - 36:18">Babies making the voice first voiced David is made the first choice because go and speak to these women.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[36:18]</small> <span title="36:18 - 36:21">So can you say that again it was that the voice.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[36:21]</small> <span title="36:21 - 36:32">Waste points outdated makes the first choice which is to go in talk to these words Brandon it comes along as like a supporting character is the woman that is challenging David.</span> <span title="36:32 - 36:42">Constantly and he is trying to stand up to her challenges or her she tests if you want to use that kind of that language and he failed.</span> <span title="36:43 - 36:51">And Brandon is ultimately the one who gets to sleep with her but he's almost a point of view character she's anxious to him but he doesn't take much action.</span> <span title="36:51 - 37:03">Entering a film it's about character it feels like this is got movement because the rock it's not that there is no protagonist it's it that protagonist in this scene is not a main character.</span> <span title="37:04 - 37:08">Any factory in Target is not at main character at all he's an Observer.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[37:10]</small> <span title="37:10 - 37:17">And that is repeated importantly so sissy his sister turns up in his house.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[37:18]</small> <span title="37:18 - 37:22">I'm going to come xx.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[37:24]</small> <span title="37:24 - 37:38">Ok we'll talk 2 days and see what he's being an asshole.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[37:40]</small> <span title="37:40 - 37:47">What expect.</span> <span title="37:48 - 37:56">Look you give the cell phone you get your ass up and leave every morning.</span> <span title="37:57 - 38:01">50 ok.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[38:01]</small> <span title="38:01 - 38:06">Basically she's like a lounge singer and Brandon and David go to see.</span> <span title="38:06 - 38:18">Her perform which is New York in New York and there is some idea of history and reveals my history between Brandon and her but ultimately we again seeing David.</span> <span title="38:18 - 38:24">4 with 50 in a kind of like a mirror of this scene.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[38:35]</small> <span title="38:35 - 38:41">Can I see you again please that you forward I just I find you fascinating.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[38:42]</small> <span title="38:42 - 38:52">Did you ever get a fascinating creature I'd love to see you again listen by the way this is Cellarbrations get champagne champagne.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[38:51]</small> <span title="38:51 - 38:58">But it's clear because it's a sister that she is now his antagonist in this mill section the film.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[38:58]</small> <span title="38:58 - 39:07">Well it's the film does some very interesting things because it's his sister is the one woman he can't sexual lies in the film.</span> <span title="39:07 - 39:14">And interestingly the very first time we meet her he walks in on her in the shower naked.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[39:14]</small> <span title="39:14 - 39:15">Yes.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[39:15]</small> <span title="39:15 - 39:28">You are so comfortable being naked around him and he is not I guess you know not that he's sexuallising her but he's not comfortable around a sexual intimacy.</span> <span title="39:29 - 39:32">And that's in her as it as a result of his addiction so.</span> <span title="39:33 - 39:46">Yep they go and have that but they they go to see her perform as you say it's the mirror of the the previous bar scene but once again David is the observer once again his disgusting boss who is married and has kids,</span> <span title="39:46 - 39:51">he's trying to pick up someone B's trying to pick up Brandon's sister and is successful.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[39:53]</small> <span title="39:53 - 40:00">And upon hearing them have sex in Brandon's own bed.</span> <span title="40:01 - 40:04">He goes out for a run and that is the.</span> <span title="40:05 - 40:14">Motivation for the scene that I want to talk about in the swim and it's not actually seen it's a sequence so it's a couple of scenes.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[40:13]</small> <span title="40:13 - 40:24">Nothing I think this couple of days comments that there's moments when City challenges Brandon and brand as life she is an antagonist but she's not a plot obstacle.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[40:24]</small> <span title="40:24 - 40:25">Yeah very much.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[40:25]</small> <span title="40:25 - 40:29">She's a products Queen so far is that she's in his apartment he wants get the fucken rid of it.</span> <span title="40:29 - 40:40">That's closest but it's not like she's locking the door and him or anything like that but she is an antagonist in that she fixed back to him the truth of who he is.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[40:40]</small> <span title="40:40 - 40:48">I make you angry all the time and I don't know why tell.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[40:50]</small> <span title="40:50 - 40:57">Force me into corner and trap me Chuck Norris to go.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[40:59]</small> <span title="40:59 - 41:03">You look so fucking shit is that my brother.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[41:03]</small> <span title="41:03 - 41:09">They found a way to kind of externalise his internal dilemmas but only by her talking to him about it.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[41:09]</small> <span title="41:09 - 41:20">Well absolutely this scene is further ahead of where I want to talk about bit the clear view that she's a plot obstacle.</span> <span title="41:20 - 41:29">To him and a character of school as well is when she comes home walks in on him masturbating in his bedroom.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[41:41]</small> <span title="41:41 - 41:46">Haha love the fucking door brand.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[41:46]</small> <span title="41:46 - 41:57">He chases are out of the room she then finds like there the sex live web chat that he was talking to.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[41:57]</small> <span title="41:57 - 42:02">Are you Brandon's girlfriend.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[42:04]</small> <span title="42:04 - 42:08">Do you want to play.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[42:08]</small> <span title="42:08 - 42:16">It forces him to kick her out of his apartment but then it forces him to throw away all his pornography in all these computers.</span> <span title="42:17 - 42:30">He tries to make a conscious change for good it all away from his addiction good I don't want to put labels on this and that scene is in the middle of the sequence that I want to talk about can I can I head into it.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[42:30]</small> <span title="42:30 - 42:31">Yes.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[42:31]</small> <span title="42:31 - 42:42">Ok so Brandon as previously flirted across the work office space with a coworker call Marianne and.</span> <span title="42:42 - 42:50">After the the night of a obvious sister sleeping with his boss he asked her out on a date.</span> <span title="42:51 - 42:55">And it's just a proper dinner date it's actually.</span> <span title="42:55 - 43:09">You got a sensibly not a very good date you know like it feels very awkward a lot of it is in one single take where it doesn't feel like they're having a super close connection you know.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[43:09]</small> <span title="43:09 - 43:15">And a waiter waiter in a way as being an obstacle superimposing.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[43:12]</small> <span title="43:12 - 43:19">Yeah I know what the waiter is fantastically awful at his job.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[43:19]</small> <span title="43:19 - 43:31">White bread Randy kiln why so late but if you like it like.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[43:33]</small> <span title="43:33 - 43:33">Late.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[43:34]</small> <span title="43:34 - 43:41">And like even fit even when they're walking down the street afterwards and he poses some crappy hypothetical Lake.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[43:40]</small> <span title="43:40 - 43:44">If you had a choice to live in the past or the future.</span> <span title="43:45 - 43:56">Could be anything you wanted to be I would you be less boring.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[43:56]</small> <span title="43:56 - 44:10">The worst thing you could say on a first date and the date ends in there like at the moment where should they kiss should they not and she just walks away but the point is it's so wonderful because he's actually striving for a,</span> <span title="44:10 - 44:17">a human human connection at like humans not the right way but in is driving for intimacy not sex.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[44:17]</small> <span title="44:17 - 44:27">And he goes home after that and I'm pretty sure at least that's when sissy discovers him masturbating and they have their argument.</span> <span title="44:27 - 44:38">And that leads to him find his laptop etc etc and basically at that point he then disposes of all his pornography you.</span> <span title="44:39 - 44:42">That laptop and all the other sex related stuff.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[44:42]</small> <span title="44:42 - 44:43">And.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[44:43]</small> <span title="44:43 - 44:46">Anyways, cleansing himself a bit addictive lifestyle.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[44:46]</small> <span title="44:46 - 45:01">Correct so he did that that's what he's and the very next scene is him at going in late getting Marianne out of work and heading to a hotel where he's previously seen someone else having sex through the hotel.</span> <span title="45:01 - 45:06">Window and there he tries to have.</span> <span title="45:07 - 45:21">An intimate sexual experience and he can't he's impotent and this is obviously my point being in those previous things that you're talking about he's not been there and the protagonist.</span> <span title="45:21 - 45:32">In this scene he's clearly the protagonist and she is clearly the antagonistic forced she's the dramatic representation of him defeating his obstacle which is his sex addiction.</span> <span title="45:32 - 45:38">She is calling him to overcome his to choose his need over his want.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[45:38]</small> <span title="45:38 - 45:41">Marianne azure.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[45:40]</small> <span title="45:40 - 45:44">Yeah Marianne is and I think his sister as well right.</span> <span title="45:45 - 45:54">So they clearly human antagonistic forces and I use that in terms of their calling for him to change not just presenting obstacles.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[45:54]</small> <span title="45:54 - 45:55">Yep.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[45:55]</small> <span title="45:55 - 46:01">AT-AT in contrast to the other scenes and he can't do it he's impotent his addiction wins.</span> <span title="46:01 - 46:15">And she leaves and he calls a prostitute to come so that they can engage in the exact same sexual act that he saw through the window and that's starts his spiral of series of.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[46:14]</small> <span title="46:14 - 46:16">He gives into his addiction.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[46:16]</small> <span title="46:16 - 46:18">You just fully dives into it.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[46:17]</small> <span title="46:17 - 46:22">So he goes home and kicks out his sister.</span> <span title="46:23 - 46:34">After she's like you know it's an amazing chain but it's Sheen is amazing scene I'm in tears talking about how they need to help each other and he basically said she's irresponsible of Burden.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[46:34]</small> <span title="46:34 - 46:42">You come in here and you're a wait on me do you understand me you're a burden you've just fucking dragging me down.</span> <span title="46:43 - 46:54">How are you helping me you can even clean up after yourself gone now.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[46:54]</small> <span title="46:54 - 47:00">Chief this is the antagonist in today's middle section of the film because she is morning challenges him,</span> <span title="47:00 - 47:14">and when doesn't like where that leads him he throws her out he reject his antagonist and then gives into his addiction which is this incredible sequence of him hitting rock bottom.</span> <span title="47:14 - 47:20">You know we end up going to a gay bar we hooks up with them and then you guys had sex with prostitutes like it's query.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[47:20]</small> <span title="47:20 - 47:31">So it's 3 different sexual encounters you've talked about the last two the first one is he hits on a woman in a bar and gets into a fight as a result.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[47:31]</small> <span title="47:31 - 47:41">With it because he basically hits on to her explain to her in graphic detail what he wants to do to her boyfriend comes over and says what did you say to her and he tells him.</span> <span title="47:41 - 47:51">You pick a fight and then he beats up he beats up Brandon and that leads to the other two sexual counted and when she is on the way home,</span> <span title="47:51 - 48:00">on the trains very cleverly user point of view because with this point it's established it's Izzy is someone that self-harm so there's a moment early on,</span> <span title="48:00 - 48:06">where she's like teetering on the edge of the subway platform that we're on on the subway,</span> <span title="48:06 - 48:13">and they asked to leave the play ever last leave the train because of a police emergency he tried to call sissy she does not answer,</span> <span title="48:13 - 48:20">someone's his attention become moves from his sexual needs to concerned for his sister,</span> <span title="48:20 - 48:24">and we wonder if it was her that committed suicide on the train tracks.</span> <span title="48:25 - 48:32">And ultimately he finds her in the bathroom of his flat covered in blood she's flashed her wrists.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[48:31]</small> <span title="48:31 - 48:41">So you know here is a clear movie where whatever plot obstacles are created by his addiction and.</span> <span title="48:42 - 48:54">His need is a character is to get over that addiction that is creating what few plot obstacles there are I mean the fact is his computer comes back full of porn and they say.</span> <span title="48:54 - 48:58">I was filthy some hacker must have got into it or something like that.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[48:58]</small> <span title="48:58 - 49:03">In those intern I think they blame David suggested it was his intern.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[49:04]</small> <span title="49:04 - 49:09">Your hard drive is still see right we got your computer back I mean it is it is dirty.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[49:11]</small> <span title="49:11 - 49:22">Things you're in town I might try someone's fuck up now with low and high wide and cash in on pics of really really sick fux spend all day on that shit.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[49:22]</small> <span title="49:22 - 49:29">Earlier in the film it's got a feeling it happens after.</span> <span title="49:30 - 49:33">David Flint certificate somewhere year Kinder.</span> <span title="49:33 - 49:47">Either but a million is interesting moment she's basically incessantly call David but she's kind of like a glove at it like she's her behaviour is obsessive in the same way that that Brandon's behave is obsessive just manifest in different ways.</span> <span title="49:47 - 49:53">The final this is interesting me this is a binary choice and present it's a Heroes,</span> <span title="49:53 - 50:05">3 hours like an action movie is bit branding and sitting in the subway train and we noticed the woman for the NFL wearing engagement ring all the married whether she's married now and she starts looking at him,</span> <span title="50:06 - 50:08">I eating him on for like a bit of word.</span> <span title="50:08 - 50:17">At least you to start flirting with him and Brandon kinda blows into it but when she leaves as opposed to him following her he doesn't,</span> <span title="50:18 - 50:22">that is the extent of his character change over the course of the film.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[50:22]</small> <span title="50:22 - 50:23">Yes.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[50:23]</small> <span title="50:23 - 50:33">But it's clear that I can turns of a binder just represent change you the stands follows her or doesn't and he doesn't give into these issues free to feed his addiction.</span> <span title="50:33 - 50:38">But you feel like maybe his Focus has shift.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[50:38]</small> <span title="50:38 - 50:47">Well I think he's the change I think he wants to yeah where is I think in the beginning of the film he didn't have any desire to change.</span> <span title="50:47 - 51:00">He didn't see any downside to his addiction I mean we're not the seeing the combination of him giving into his addiction to sequence worries ending up having sex with two prostitutes at the same time.</span> <span title="51:01 - 51:09">It's extremely graphic but there's also it ends with it almost looks like he's an animal.</span> <span title="51:09 - 51:23">And it ends with this haunted look on his face and it it's it's usually confronting an incredible performance moment that I don't know how they wrote that on the page I think.</span> <span title="51:24 - 51:29">Get fast member to act but yes it is it is a a film that a is.</span> <span title="51:30 - 51:42">The remarkable you know plus I think we had trouble finding films where the self is the main antagonist I feel that this is a really great example of that.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[51:42]</small> <span title="51:42 - 51:56">But they had to find keep it to maintain it they brought in sissy because I don't think in the sense of her being a force for change your arrival I don't think would have randomly kept on living.</span> <span title="51:57 - 51:59">The life he was living until her alright.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[51:59]</small> <span title="51:59 - 52:03">Yeah and his boss is a source of antagonism because.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[52:04]</small> <span title="52:04 - 52:06">Heath Ledger.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[52:06]</small> <span title="52:06 - 52:13">Yeah babe it's not just that I think he sees him as a maybe a sex addict but I'm not that.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[52:13]</small> <span title="52:13 - 52:22">You're a dependency you're a parasite.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[52:25]</small> <span title="52:25 - 52:33">Yeah I'm not I know who I am I and yes conversation about a with Marianne about how it doesn't leak and commitment.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[52:33]</small> <span title="52:33 - 52:47">One person for the rest of your life and I mean you come to restaurant cc couple sitting together and they only speak to another day they all have anything to say they all have anything that we don't want to speak to you later.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[52:49]</small> <span title="52:49 - 52:51">Or they just bought.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[52:51]</small> <span title="52:51 - 53:01">So he's like he is clear that he is the Israelite which is prolly why is having sex with prostitutes and stuff like that is very clear about that transaction will make sure of his relationship.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[53:01]</small> <span title="53:01 - 53:12">Is how I put it I think if he were asked who respects women more you or your boss he would handsome say I respect women more and I think the film betrays him as respecting women more.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[53:12]</small> <span title="53:12 - 53:18">Yeah in in its own his own way which is his honest.</span> <span title="53:18 - 53:32">I think it's I don't think that's a respect but I think he's honest just want to try trying to show you as a permanent is essentially character story about someone that's in an addict filmed it does external has its non-offensive antagonism.</span> <span title="53:32 - 53:41">And even if the journey of internal put fines away but the question is asked at the beginning of a character question and that force that antagonistic.</span> <span title="53:41 - 53:53">Boss this is Kai animal nature as manifested or demonstrated will dramatise by him running after the married woman is answered by the end of the felt metallic frames it's story.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[53:53]</small> <span title="53:53 - 53:57">So shall we we dive into Monster.</span> 
## Monster {#chapter}

**Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[53:57]</small> <span title="53:57 - 54:03">Before we get into Monster oh just a bit of a warning up front is this is a film is pretty,</span> <span title="54:03 - 54:14">heavy going it's a true story about a real life serial killer and deals with sexual assault sexual violence and molestation.</span> <span title="54:14 - 54:23">On top of all the killing so if you're sensitive just such discussions please feel free to skip forward to the next chapter.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[54:34]</small> <span title="54:34 - 54:40">Trying to make some cash.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[54:58]</small> <span title="54:58 - 55:04">Little ride to question are you from Batman.</span> <span title="55:04 - 55:13">You got it I got it under control now.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[55:28]</small> <span title="55:28 - 55:34">Hey would you call it a biopic I don't really know how dramatised it is.</span> <span title="55:35 - 55:45">Or not but it's ostensibly about the the life of Aileen wuornos who was a no famous female serial killer.</span> <span title="55:46 - 55:52">In the US and when I suggested this is an example of.</span> <span title="55:52 - 55:59">Where the main antagonist is the the protagonist in oa vs Self example you'll like,</span> <span title="55:59 - 56:10">is it and I thought about it for a second and then been a long time since I watch the movie and I'm like you know what I'm not too sure I could be completely wrong on that front but after having rewatch the film I think it.</span> <span title="56:10 - 56:18">It leans very heavily onto your review that sequences have protagonist in.</span> <span title="56:18 - 56:32">Antagonist and that they can change and I definitely think in the first half of this movie she is not her own antagonist there are external antagonists which we can talk about but in the second half of the film and in fact.</span> <span title="56:32 - 56:39">The whole thematic question of the film is about whether she had choice and what she did or not.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[56:40]</small> <span title="56:40 - 56:47">So to summarise the story is that Aileen moves to Florida.</span> <span title="56:48 - 56:57">Where she meets Selby even though she said she's not go there yet drinking make auntie hit up a relationship Aileen promises to take Selby away from her.</span> <span title="56:57 - 57:09">Home why such as it is a Aileen is a prostitute which I said that I mean is prostitute and then she turns tricks to make money she is no.</span> <span title="57:10 - 57:24">My other clients front of the John's like weights and blue laces her and she kill him in self defence for that she tries to go clean and give up prostitution and find legitimate work but because she has no basically work history she is.</span> <span title="57:25 - 57:40">Rejected constantly and so she returns prostitution to make money and then she starts can we her John's in rubbing them but not all of the John's the film will make painter she is it stuff that she gets people that she determines our.</span> <span title="57:40 - 57:42">Badman mallis.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[57:42]</small> <span title="57:42 - 57:48">I mean if you can wrap up this story because I wanted to talk about those decisions.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[57:48]</small> <span title="57:48 - 57:50">Sway this is a serial killer film,</span> <span title="57:50 - 58:03">where we find me where we're in the point of view that I print a message this you will keala settle why I guess it's like The Killer Inside Me which I haven't seen you don't better something gangster can like Scarface even though I've got those.</span> <span title="58:03 - 58:15">Gangsters in fucking murder is motherfuckers anyway but this makes feel make some certain choices to have a frame this journey of a character and the antagonism it is presented to Hayley but I think this is where you want to go.</span> <span title="58:15 - 58:17">With it.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[58:16]</small> <span title="58:16 - 58:25">Yeah it will look in in the first sequence clearly Selby is in in the true rom com because it's it's like there's a meet cute.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[58:26]</small> <span title="58:26 - 58:27">Selby.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[58:31]</small> <span title="58:31 - 58:36">And there's a a coming together and as a courtship.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[58:36]</small> <span title="58:36 - 58:47">Did you go somewhere.</span> <span title="58:48 - 58:54">You need to get a room my son.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[58:59]</small> <span title="58:59 - 59:13">And they genuinely fallen off and it's actually quite beautiful and so Selby is in her she's a source of antagonism on Lee she is you know in inspiringly to not be a prostitute.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[59:13]</small> <span title="59:13 - 59:23">What you say quick cookie I could hug why why do I fucking hate it.</span> <span title="59:23 - 59:30">I thought you said it was my bad what is your name.</span> <span title="59:30 - 59:37">Not everything else so I'm going to do this time I'm doing it up Roy.</span> <span title="59:37 - 59:47">How about that but what are you going to do about work if I get a job cleaning up now.</span> <span title="59:47 - 59:50">Spider-Man I'll get a courier.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[59:50]</small> <span title="59:50 - 59:53">I mean it is it's a wonderful beautiful love scene right.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[59:53]</small> <span title="59:53 - 59:59">Simile Aileen is inspiring sell because Selby's been exile business family situation is going to be in Exile.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[59:58]</small> <span title="59:58 - 1:00:15">This girl and make sure she told everyone that I tried to kiss her so apparently some told me and I decide to come down trying to figure things out and let go.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:00:14]</small> <span title="1:00:14 - 1:00:26">And so he's got to go home and Mario basically meet a boy and get married because of parents are religious and aliens aliens like basically saying it's ok to for you to be gay.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:00:26]</small> <span title="1:00:26 - 1:00:35">So he's working out and were around happy sad that you could I tell my family cause we're going to be breathing kidding I love it so.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:00:36]</small> <span title="1:00:36 - 1:00:38">Ichigo.</span> <span title="1:00:39 - 1:00:48">There's no choice not choosing anything it's just the way I am and I'm like Em feel bad about them or you can tell him that too.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:00:49]</small> <span title="1:00:49 - 1:00:50">Aileen.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:00:49]</small> <span title="1:00:49 - 1:00:52">Then and then obviously.</span> <span title="1:00:52 - 1:01:01">The horrific rape and her subsequent self defence killing of her rapist those are external.</span> <span title="1:01:01 - 1:01:05">These are all external antagonist antagonistic forces.</span> <span title="1:01:05 - 1:01:18">Then once she decides to give up looking after that she doesn't tell Selby what happens in originally she just as I'm gonna give up hooking and you've got the world being the antagonist no one will employ her.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:01:18]</small> <span title="1:01:18 - 1:01:32">I see you're from Daytona Beach and all that looks great I must be wonderful but can I tell you something when the beach party is over you don't get to say you know what I think now I'd like to have what everybody else has work too tired for doesn't work.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:01:34]</small> <span title="1:01:34 - 1:01:43">We're u fuk u fuk that's great I'm so sorry I didn't hurry before.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:01:43]</small> <span title="1:01:43 - 1:01:56">And you know even there's a cop who pulls her over and it forces her to have sex with him because he picked her up for hooking previously.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:01:58]</small> <span title="1:01:58 - 1:02:11">Send me to Mars told me 10.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:02:10]</small> <span title="1:02:10 - 1:02:19">Played out in Point of View where you think he's taking out of the police station turns out he's a steak in Terraria underground car park and yeah it's horrible.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:02:18]</small> <span title="1:02:18 - 1:02:28">At this point in the film all the sources of antagonism are external to her and she gets the point where she says the words.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:02:27]</small> <span title="1:02:27 - 1:02:42">Tell her if I can come back will I understand if you can get him to the zone even one wanted to go back before it was just so shit scared getting kaiawhina was the only reason.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:02:44]</small> <span title="1:02:44 - 1:02:48">Haven't looked into that was dirty in man the fuck my kitten.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:02:51]</small> <span title="1:02:51 - 1:02:56">Right and that very first John that she goes back to.</span> <span title="1:02:57 - 1:03:02">You know there's some really interesting cinematic techniques where it goes into her head,</span> <span title="1:03:03 - 1:03:12">and like there's a loud tone in music going on and you notes clearly that she's suffering some kind of post traumatic stress disorder.</span> <span title="1:03:13 - 1:03:14">And she ends up killing him.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:03:14]</small> <span title="1:03:14 - 1:03:18">Because you made some kind of out his daughter or something like that.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:03:18]</small> <span title="1:03:18 - 1:03:19">No no he says.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:03:19]</small> <span title="1:03:19 - 1:03:21">Call me daddy when I talk to him.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:03:29]</small> <span title="1:03:29 - 1:03:35">I'm out and then we begin to unravel her back story from that point four.</span> <span title="1:03:35 - 1:03:49">We just told review all very slowly over time which is more left his daughter get into prostitution because like get her father's quote unquote father which is actually her grandfather friends come around and have sex with Aaron.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:03:48]</small> <span title="1:03:48 - 1:04:00">Sheryl fuck man you still my dad's you know.</span> <span title="1:04:03 - 1:04:16">So go to my dad tell me what's going on my dad all fucking believe me so his friend keeps raping me for years and I can get her to the story is that my dad but can be up for it.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:04:16]</small> <span title="1:04:16 - 1:04:20">Fucken horrible but it's very it's a very slow reveal.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:04:20]</small> <span title="1:04:20 - 1:04:29">And then she starts as he said she starts doing it for money she starts at picking John's and.</span> <span title="1:04:29 - 1:04:41">Murdering them although what is really interesting is that with each John that it shows in the film she is actually presented with a choice there's one guy who,</span> <span title="1:04:41 - 1:04:50">who is clearly she she like starts getting herself ready to murder him she starts saying you like a tough how you want it you want to hurt me.</span> <span title="1:04:51 - 1:04:58">She starts like getting herself worked up ready to kill him and he turns around and says no I don't like it rough.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:04:57]</small> <span title="1:04:57 - 1:05:03">You can fucking problem like you're fucking time I like it rough.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:05:06]</small> <span title="1:05:06 - 1:05:11">I've never done this before but I have.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:05:13]</small> <span title="1:05:13 - 1:05:23">And she feels sorry for him and I think just jack some often takes his money but it shows that it is a choice now.</span> <span title="1:05:23 - 1:05:29">There's two more murders after that that are shown in the film one is.</span> <span title="1:05:29 - 1:05:42">Of a former police officer who she find out after killing him that he was sleeping with prostitutes cause his wife was in a wheelchair I believe anyway.</span> <span title="1:05:43 - 1:05:54">She and then the final the final victim is an nice kind man who picks you up and genuinely wants to help her does not pick her up as a prostitute.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:05:54]</small> <span title="1:05:54 - 1:06:09">You need some help I'll do what I can to get you back with you care but maybe you need a room shower small clothes and Rooms empty if you wanted and I'm sure my wife would know media.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:06:08]</small> <span title="1:06:08 - 1:06:15">And she's screaming like he's screaming to how you don't have to do this.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:06:15]</small> <span title="1:06:15 - 1:06:23">You don't have to you just having a hard time killing you live.</span> <span title="1:06:25 - 1:06:38">Don't worry no worry my daughter is having a baby.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:06:42]</small> <span title="1:06:42 - 1:06:51">And she has to do it it in the way that the performance at the moment and all that is betrayed and in amongst all these murders is.</span> <span title="1:06:52 - 1:07:04">Selby and her relationship breaking apart but there's one a discussion between Selby and her not sure if it's an aunt or a church for you but someone she was staying with where.</span> <span title="1:07:05 - 1:07:10">Where the owner saying you can't blame a tough life for the choices that you make.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:07:09]</small> <span title="1:07:09 - 1:07:24">No she's at a real hard life we had a mean mum.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:07:24]</small> <span title="1:07:24 - 1:07:33">So that's a point of view of one side of the film and the other side is Lee saying I feel like I never had a fucking choice.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:07:33]</small> <span title="1:07:33 - 1:07:43">Man circumstance that's exactly it that's exactly it you know it's like I feel like I never had a choice.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:07:43]</small> <span title="1:07:43 - 1:07:54">I think this is a decision that the film is made well not the film Patty Jenkins who wrote and directed it Patty Jenkins has chosen to frame the pound so as I explained that she.</span> <span title="1:07:54 - 1:07:58">They have Peter the backstory of.</span> <span title="1:07:58 - 1:08:07">Aileen that at the beginning we feel like it's consensual her choosing to sleep with boys because she wants to be a movie star and then we realise it a backstories more Sinister that,</span> <span title="1:08:07 - 1:08:16">if he's coming to town Marvel episodes they could have open this to show her character were in better when was it she was sexually abused as a very young child was rejected.</span> <span title="1:08:17 - 1:08:26">Because effectively her like father of Mum by her father left and she was raised by grandparents at them sold the red spot whatever the specific details maybe.</span> <span title="1:08:27 - 1:08:33">The film could have opened in that way that will very sympathetic and it was presented her.</span> <span title="1:08:34 - 1:08:43">Quite clear const from first action to like the first moment to final consequence would have been it the serial killing me his men.</span> <span title="1:08:43 - 1:08:53">Her killing his name was a consequence of that instead the film is framing at you're still open with a voice over and it's kind of her naivety or her head delusion about her upbringing.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:08:53]</small> <span title="1:08:53 - 1:09:05">I always wanted to be in the movies when I was little I thought for sure one day I could be a big big star or maybe just beautiful.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:09:04]</small> <span title="1:09:04 - 1:09:19">And you can't see dinner sex hurt because it's pictures but this voice over is contrast it's the images that tell the story of how Ellie became Hooker it starts with her showing her breasts two boys July the guy sleeping with him and then.</span> <span title="1:09:19 - 1:09:28">Him paying her to Junee to has become a prostitute in the opening is designed to show the contradictions in her life and her worldview.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:09:28]</small> <span title="1:09:28 - 1:09:35">I heard that Marilyn Monroe was discovered in a soda shop and I thought for sure it could be like that so I started going out.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:09:52]</small> <span title="1:09:52 - 1:10:00">Marilyn we would somehow believe it just and then they would see me for what I could be in think I was pewter.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:10:02]</small> <span title="1:10:02 - 1:10:06">Nice one day to start.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:10:06]</small> <span title="1:10:06 - 1:10:16">Any sequence ends with her under a bridge playing with a gun and thinking about suicide there is a clear line to him what she is saying in the voice over.</span> <span title="1:10:16 - 1:10:21">What we see is Unfolding in her life and where she ends up at the beginning of our story.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:10:21]</small> <span title="1:10:21 - 1:10:28">By the time I'm at Selby wall.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:10:28]</small> <span title="1:10:28 - 1:10:32">If the first meal question the film ask is a character question,</span> <span title="1:10:32 - 1:10:46">will Aileen kill herself in a way and she didn't kill herself but it's will be harm herself or why does she want to hurt herself why what is the battle that her thing contemplating suicide is a character question and make sure that what you mean Selby.</span> <span title="1:10:46 - 1:10:52">This is very similar structure leads what saying did which is that the destructive behaviour of.</span> <span title="1:10:53 - 1:11:01">Brandon is a first date elective behaviours both with her sleeping with young boys are showing them her,</span> <span title="1:11:02 - 1:11:16">I'm taking a talking to him a tips and stuff like that pretty young age I meant don't connect Matt to a suicide we see her destructive behaviour at the beginning we don't see the destruction or damage that was done to her we see the damage that you trying to do with herself and I think that then,</span> <span title="1:11:16 - 1:11:17">colours,</span> <span title="1:11:17 - 1:11:29">the rest of the film and I think cause of the question and I'm an idea that the kind of antagonistic question or that the question that you're asking very early on to find the primary and take us for primary complex of the story.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:11:29]</small> <span title="1:11:29 - 1:11:40">Yep and you have to the right in terms of structure structure is very important to this is those details about what was done to her or only revealed.</span> <span title="1:11:41 - 1:11:48">They're not they're reveal before the final murder but they're revealed after the murder of the former police officer and.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:11:48]</small> <span title="1:11:48 - 1:11:50">I thought you told Sophie.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:11:50]</small> <span title="1:11:50 - 1:11:52">She tell Selby some things.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:11:52]</small> <span title="1:11:52 - 1:12:06">My brothers and sisters groupme Royal my dad killed himself will run on the streets and the neighbours it let them stay over but only if I'd in Tagalog you now so I steer clear but I'm having money now.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:12:08]</small> <span title="1:12:08 - 1:12:13">I was having her anyway so I just always make sure that new clothes and cigarette and stuff like.</span> <span title="1:12:14 - 1:12:24">But we're at this party in the sky comes in and he's like yeah you know she fucks so itself and they're all embarrassed he's turning in the corner of.</span> <span title="1:12:25 - 1:12:35">So they are yeah they they threw me out and it's now coming up in Omaha in there somewhere and they hate me and all that.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:12:37]</small> <span title="1:12:37 - 1:12:39">That was it just took off.</span> <span title="1:12:40 - 1:12:54">Never win back your dad family you're so fucking them.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:12:54]</small> <span title="1:12:54 - 1:13:02">But not there about the childhood sexual abuse she's she says like I've had a tough life and it's hinted at by doing that.</span> <span title="1:13:02 - 1:13:15">The film is very deliberately not positive her as a victim at the effect of her past but as someone with agency and choice and several those Motors.</span> <span title="1:13:15 - 1:13:23">I very much like I think the first one when she comes back the the ever said the sound and the performance.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:13:29]</small> <span title="1:13:29 - 1:13:32">It's not a choice.</span> <span title="1:13:32 - 1:13:46">But some of the other ones are a choice the fact that they've shown her letting one of them go shows that it's a choice the fact that the last murder victim is screaming you don't have to do this and she's crying as she does it.</span> <span title="1:13:48 - 1:14:02">And the fact that you've had two conversations before there's outside of the murders where they're discussing are you at the effect of your upbringing or do you have choice to me means it's you know.</span> <span title="1:14:03 - 1:14:10">The entire back half of the movie she is her own source of complex.</span> <span title="1:14:11 - 1:14:16">She is the obstacle that needs to be overcome and the obstacle that Selby needs to overcome.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:14:16]</small> <span title="1:14:16 - 1:14:20">In each of the yes she's the optical.</span> <span title="1:14:20 - 1:14:33">And each of the victims are antagonists in a sense that they challenge her preconceptions they me challenge it too late so she cute and the detectives is very.</span> <span title="1:14:34 - 1:14:42">Kind and gentle compared to some of the others suburb ex police officer but he has a weapon he didn't tell her about any won't explain it to her.</span> <span title="1:14:43 - 1:14:45">Reasons of a come clear afterwards.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:14:45]</small> <span title="1:14:45 - 1:14:58">Vs Gatorade here I was good fucking gun in it show people have.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:14:58]</small> <span title="1:14:58 - 1:15:05">So each of those victims actually challenges her and are a form of antagonist which in that scene right.</span> <span title="1:15:06 - 1:15:13">I mean I mean by the credit conflict that is resolved by killing them or not in most cases she kills them except for the guy that she.</span> <span title="1:15:13 - 1:15:17">Ago but we didn't actually been running run into the woods.</span> <span title="1:15:18 - 1:15:29">It's a cheesy ok you meant very quick hand job and that was it and so this is interesting cuz I guess what were trying to drive it is as much as that these these primary can fix weather it's vs.</span> <span title="1:15:29 - 1:15:34">Dresses other people v humans over self always looking into vs nature.</span> <span title="1:15:35 - 1:15:39">The primary Conflict for me to find by the larger structure the outside in the inside of the film.</span> <span title="1:15:40 - 1:15:45">In this case the outside of the film is this kind of doing her of her accepting who she is or.</span> <span title="1:15:46 - 1:15:59">And in his cases got a court case same as a similar kind of thing is back journey of him coming to terms of his addiction we have Greg Richards character in Little Miss Sunshine that Pony Alpha 2 from the inside antagonistic forces a different,</span> <span title="1:15:59 - 1:16:03">I do kind of challenge what be challenging is different.</span> <span title="1:16:04 - 1:16:09">Image that the optical seems to have come is as you say internal and I guess compared to the other films.</span> <span title="1:16:10 - 1:16:18">That we did in the previous part those what they of schools that need to overcome internal but they're not the creation of Mrs right it's complicated right.</span> <span title="1:16:18 - 1:16:25">Like are they could you say that they're friends with woman character in three billboards first to self.</span> <span title="1:16:26 - 1:16:30">Maybe I get to yours and crater in conflict pictures of T-Rex the signs.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:16:29]</small> <span title="1:16:29 - 1:16:31">Yep what a thing.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:16:30]</small> <span title="1:16:30 - 1:16:32">To pick a fight just using to pick up.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:16:32]</small> <span title="1:16:32 - 1:16:41">Yeah yeah so I think early on the the antagonist the way that that film is structured.</span> <span title="1:16:41 - 1:16:46">Presentz Willoughby early on and Dixon as her antagonist right.</span> <span title="1:16:46 - 1:16:57">And their external to hurt but that in that episode a reference that scene where she's she's by herself in bed lying in bed and she's like talking to herself about what she should do.</span> <span title="1:16:57 - 1:17:07">And she chooses violence in that moment she is her own and agonist she's the obstacle to the change.</span> <span title="1:17:07 - 1:17:09">To her need.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:17:09]</small> <span title="1:17:09 - 1:17:14">Yeah yeah and I guess in my Monster as well like Selby.</span> <span title="1:17:15 - 1:17:21">Yeah I'm in such a romantic comedy because in the end they have they are like La La Land Selby.</span> <span title="1:17:22 - 1:17:24">You know why because they'll be best.</span> <span title="1:17:24 - 1:17:39">Aileen for the final time and basically there's a tell she let slip that she's try fishing for something a incriminating and Aileen realises Bisso Aileen.</span> <span title="1:17:40 - 1:17:49">Moelis times on the angry it makes it clear that Selby was the only person that Selby was not responsible at all they had no idea what's going on but we have the audience know his lunch.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:17:49]</small> <span title="1:17:49 - 1:18:00">I'm an alien nose in that what's happening in that conversation she knows she's been recorded she knows she's asking a Selby what's going on.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:18:00]</small> <span title="1:18:00 - 1:18:07">Selby what are you talking about I come out when we crashed the car.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:18:08]</small> <span title="1:18:08 - 1:18:18">Why are you so slowly coming after me and I'm going to go.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:18:21]</small> <span title="1:18:21 - 1:18:25">I wouldn't do that.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:18:25]</small> <span title="1:18:25 - 1:18:28">She knows that they don't have a case against her.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:18:28]</small> <span title="1:18:28 - 1:18:38">Don't worry about that sell mean that say something like that you something now so just talk about it you know.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:18:38]</small> <span title="1:18:38 - 1:18:46">She saying like there's lots of doubt and that she's got a strong case and they may have to let her go and she knows that she's being played.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:18:46]</small> <span title="1:18:46 - 1:18:54">Really good lb I didn't do anything.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:18:54]</small> <span title="1:18:54 - 1:18:56">And she confesses to save Selby.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:19:12]</small> <span title="1:19:12 - 1:19:26">Might never let you down.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:19:51]</small> <span title="1:19:51 - 1:19:55">And you know she's given a final choice to to Die For Love.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:19:55]</small> <span title="1:19:55 - 1:20:10">Doesn't just because it doesn't feel like this clear a case of herself and changes what I guess why makes it it's a bit rich Hill mess is it safe to me the framing conflict is an internal one as kind Body by the choice to show her with a gun.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:20:09]</small> <span title="1:20:09 - 1:20:10">I mean we.</span> <span title="1:20:11 - 1:20:24">We've gotten it is interesting that the films are we got on this does this left his like The Lion King is on here because the Lion King is essentially of retailing of Hamlet but with a happy ending and.</span> 
## Wrap Up {#chapter}

<small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:20:25]</small> <span title="1:20:25 - 1:20:35">The reason that the whole middle actor the film is Simba choosing not to go back to confront his his past it is entirely an internal.</span> <span title="1:20:36 - 1:20:43">Although the repercussions of what's happening back in the pride lands are as a relation as a direct result of him and he's internal.</span> <span title="1:20:44 - 1:20:47">Decision so I think you know we.</span> <span title="1:20:48 - 1:20:59">When we were looking at films herself under this very strict paradigm it felt the we were you know either being tip towards films that don't really get made any more like a very sort of.</span> <span title="1:20:59 - 1:21:02">You know new wave 70s.</span> <span title="1:21:02 - 1:21:15">Cinema or we were getting tip towards more ArtHouse films but I really enjoyed the fact that we've looked at Little Miss Sunshine and you know we've got examples on here like.</span> <span title="1:21:16 - 1:21:17">The Lion King.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:21:17]</small> <span title="1:21:17 - 1:21:26">Rereading that question now but give him were kind of like someone halfway through our breakdown.</span> <span title="1:21:26 - 1:21:33">Is Christmas actually specifically about the lack of a primary antagonist and I think.</span> <span title="1:21:34 - 1:21:42">Will be with mooring fees question later on but I think hopefully this at the halfway point of our four key conflict areas is that.</span> <span title="1:21:42 - 1:21:53">Yes in humans vs humans vs Self as Premier antagonistic being forced to manifest in more ways multiple ways and.</span> <span title="1:21:53 - 1:22:01">In an example of the mindhunter monster shame Little Miss Sunshine there is a primary antagonist or primary villain.</span> <span title="1:22:01 - 1:22:13">Force of change that can be the entire that the proteins in cells that wees to all these things these decisions and I think will deal with Maoris question again but you know I think before going to nature,</span> <span title="1:22:13 - 1:22:19">which is something I feel like it lacks a villain you know this is next part that.</span> <span title="1:22:19 - 1:22:27">Ultimately Barrys point me antagonist it it is major it's just that there's no villain and I think maybe it is interesting about Little Miss Sunshine.</span> <span title="1:22:28 - 1:22:32">And Shane a monster is really in comparison to Die Hard and misery,</span> <span title="1:22:32 - 1:22:40">unless to lesser extent three billboards is there is a lack of the Cleveland and that's something we should have pointed out of the beginning and maybe we should point out the beginning buy you anything this and say,</span> <span title="1:22:40 - 1:22:47">resisting about Little Miss Sunshine chain and wants to give us a self and part of the reason that herself is that there is a lack of a Cleveland.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:22:48]</small> <span title="1:22:48 - 1:22:50">As we were going to.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:22:50]</small> <span title="1:22:50 - 1:22:55">I think I might know I'm about to beginning cause I think that's a nice Point to end it on.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:22:56]</small> <span title="1:22:56 - 1:23:08">So given that we're giving them a come up over the time that we met we set up cells were these parts I did you want to try and reveal whether or not you've had any particular learning.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:23:09]</small> <span title="1:23:09 - 1:23:19">I've got a few learning but I think my main one is actually harkening back to a feeling I got from Die Hard which was.</span> <span title="1:23:19 - 1:23:28">The idea of John mcclane was carved out by the antagonistic forces and that was really.</span> <span title="1:23:28 - 1:23:32">Reinforced in this part vs Self where.</span> <span title="1:23:33 - 1:23:40">If the self is the antagonist in every single app interaction that character has would be by nature.</span> <span title="1:23:40 - 1:23:53">Antagonistic you know and and that's a wonderful byproduct I think of having the self be the generator of both the external and inert articles of the characters but the thing that really.</span> <span title="1:23:53 - 1:23:59">Blew my mind a little bit was when you were talking about the structure of monster that Patty Jenkins.</span> <span title="1:24:00 - 1:24:08">Created and how her holding back of the reveal changes what the antagonistic forces in the film are.</span> <span title="1:24:08 - 1:24:10">If they've started with.</span> <span title="1:24:10 - 1:24:23">Lee's wound or herb background like her childhood abuse then the antagonistic forces would have been pissy very differently they would have been almost.</span> <span title="1:24:23 - 1:24:31">No feeling that Lee had character or agency in a lot of her decisions where is by choosing when to reveal it.</span> <span title="1:24:32 - 1:24:40">Yeah it really hardly out in a cat as a character in a way that I think I will be mulling for some time.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:24:41]</small> <span title="1:24:41 - 1:24:42">And yourself Stu.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:24:43]</small> <span title="1:24:43 - 1:24:51">Firstly I'm glad to see that my antagonistic forces leading you don't know to blow your mind.</span> <span title="1:24:51 - 1:24:55">That that's pretty cool I guess.</span> <span title="1:24:55 - 1:25:09">I'm just going to touch on everything that's not a cheap one but I think one of the things that I've been talking about since the first episode to think will be clearer went about disaster films is the relationship between the antagonistic Force and genre in a way.</span> <span title="1:25:09 - 1:25:19">Thinking about John Rees inherently related to thinking about what your antagonist is there is a version of monster which is.</span> <span title="1:25:19 - 1:25:29">Where Aileen is actually is the villain that she is the antagonist in Silence of the Lambs it's cammy's detect his catch Aileen 40 Kills Again.</span> <span title="1:25:29 - 1:25:30">Right there is a version of that film.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:25:30]</small> <span title="1:25:30 - 1:25:43">Or or even from even a film that take Selby's point of view even more like he's someone who should you sell be in to go on a ride into the darkness kinda thing.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:25:43]</small> <span title="1:25:43 - 1:25:49">And I'm in able to be a big brush strokes there but it is kind of like a brick brushstroke thing.</span> <span title="1:25:50 - 1:26:01">I suspect when people can see them their ideas they probably conceiving of the antagonistic forces part of it weather and all the conscious of it so you wanted to kind of went out cuz I think I'll keep on coming back to it.</span> <span title="1:26:02 - 1:26:08">Speaking of Selby the other thing in this this will lead to a big appointment pressure but I think what are things that we didn't touch on.</span> <span title="1:26:08 - 1:26:16">On Monster bit I have been thinking about it kinda hit me and I think it's related to the other films is the importance of secret.</span> <span title="1:26:17 - 1:26:29">And it something comes up at I thinking I guess what has come over me when working on television shows the characters needs secrets that they keeping from eachother whether they're consciously telling lies or they're lying to admission,</span> <span title="1:26:29 - 1:26:38">this information they don't want to reveal and in this case Aileen in particular is information she does want to reveal for Selby nearly did she is actually killing so she's lying about it.</span> <span title="1:26:38 - 1:26:48">And also confirmation that she does want to reveal to her self but what's important is loaded scenes between Silvia nailene is it there is pressure.</span> <span title="1:26:48 - 1:26:56">This is a keyword pressure on a lean to confess to sell me that she's indeed killing them.</span> <span title="1:26:56 - 1:27:07">And also I guess it in a way maybe Selby herself her acquiescence if not her affectedly she's effectively no complice do it's going on and when,</span> <span title="1:27:07 - 1:27:15">Aileen makes a choice she's put under pressure again that she's put on the pressure at the end when Selby holes.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:27:15]</small> <span title="1:27:15 - 1:27:21">With the offices listening in an alias wanted to pressure to bed either,</span> <span title="1:27:21 - 1:27:28">too involved or to effectively drive on the hand grenade and take the blame herself to say was all her,</span> <span title="1:27:28 - 1:27:37">and that pressure results in daily making that decision so I think it's a very late stage we need to just the idea of pressure.</span> <span title="1:27:37 - 1:27:46">But it's something that I do think about a lot and in some ways I think is a rider pressure is a more tangible tool.</span> <span title="1:27:47 - 1:27:50">Van antagonistic forces as much as reviving technical.</span> <span title="1:27:51 - 1:27:54">Putting a character under pressure and.</span> <span title="1:27:54 - 1:28:02">You put under pressure and you keep on increasing the pressure to you force them to make a choice or to change,</span> <span title="1:28:02 - 1:28:11">and I think that is coming back to the example used in like episode one about the two person running along in the horror movie being chased by the monster of the Killer and then try and use the door handle.</span> <span title="1:28:11 - 1:28:19">That doesn't seem like a big ears pretty McCarter under pressure because the couch at that point had an escape plan to me Danny and then need to make a decision in the moment how to be very mine ute,</span> <span title="1:28:19 - 1:28:30">paper obstacle words like I'll make they bash the glass in try to hotwire a car or they want in a different direction either way increasing the pressure on the character and I think lies and particular are,</span> <span title="1:28:30 - 1:28:34">something that you can probably doing most dramas it characters.</span> <span title="1:28:34 - 1:28:45">Withhold information from each other so you write things in which they're under pressure to tell the truth or to confront their own lie and I think that is true live in shame.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:28:45]</small> <span title="1:28:45 - 1:28:53">As well he's lying to himself in certainly is lying to other people about the pawn and everything in he's under pressure.</span> <span title="1:28:53 - 1:29:03">And the film find ways to decreasing the pressure on him even though it's less specifically goal related anything in a Little Miss Sunshine when they get there.</span> <span title="1:29:03 - 1:29:05">It's a series of escalation isn't it.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:29:05]</small> <span title="1:29:05 - 1:29:15">Yeah I know and they're each putting pressure on each other I mean to give me I think in future episodes we're gonna find.</span> <span title="1:29:15 - 1:29:20">Clear examples of what you mean by pressure.</span> <span title="1:29:21 - 1:29:26">For the moment I'm going to stick with antagonistic forces in well and I'll see if you can burn me.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:29:26]</small> <span title="1:29:26 - 1:29:40">Well it's it's more I guess pressure is a sequential it's a process putting character under pressure can't got a verbal verb is it a verb is it very cold that is terrible English.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:29:40]</small> <span title="1:29:40 - 1:29:42">An active.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:29:42]</small> <span title="1:29:42 - 1:29:49">Yeah it's kinda active when we go to under pressure is a lot more active than antagonistic Force.</span> <span title="1:29:49 - 1:30:02">There is putting I'm in pressure is obviously a noun but you can it was also operates as it is a vertical vs depressurise you push you pull whatever having implies all those things I like it because it's gonna Matt.</span> <span title="1:30:03 - 1:30:10">Activeness and a bit it's also a process ultimately the over the course of Shame.</span> <span title="1:30:10 - 1:30:15">Brandon is pressurised until Ultima he does well we believe he does something about his addiction.</span> <span title="1:30:16 - 1:30:24">In Monster Aileen the Sequence of Events put her under pressure initially so she's start committing murders right.</span> <span title="1:30:24 - 1:30:29">And then ultimately her taking until she then fucks up,</span> <span title="1:30:29 - 1:30:35">courses that did the Sequence of Events pressures right her until she fucks up and.</span> <span title="1:30:35 - 1:30:48">She is a police officer gets a quarter come in what actually specifically get to enchant no it's the car so lationship between her and Selby that leads to them getting caught but ultimately and then she confesses in and then she also takes to complete rats what's going on.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:30:48]</small> <span title="1:30:48 - 1:30:58">Oh ok can I can I jump in on Monster quickly cuz I think what's interesting is that when Lee starts almost planning murders and choosing to murder when there is.</span> <span title="1:30:59 - 1:31:03">Not that pressured like she's not under self defence she's not suffering from.</span> <span title="1:31:04 - 1:31:10">PTSD at least that's how Patty Jenkins represents those the later murders.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:31:10]</small> <span title="1:31:10 - 1:31:17">But she's pressurised into doing it because we seen her try to get work and she's failed to do that she's been watered.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:31:17]</small> <span title="1:31:17 - 1:31:20">Will know she's pressured to go back into hooking not into murdering.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:31:20]</small> <span title="1:31:20 - 1:31:21">Yeah buddy.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:31:21]</small> <span title="1:31:21 - 1:31:35">Anna and me choice that she ends up making is to murder people for money so the pressure changes from PTSD or self defence or a lack of choice from her upbringing to being.</span> <span title="1:31:35 - 1:31:41">Well this is a good way to earn a living or the only way I can earn a living is she in a way she kind of embraces it and.</span> <span title="1:31:42 - 1:31:49">The only reason I raise that as an example is because I think that's the point the truck the movies trying to make anyway before we get.</span> <span title="1:31:50 - 1:31:55">Two lost in the wilderness again just passed a tune for hopefully a.</span> <span title="1:31:56 - 1:32:05">Relatively quick release of Part 3 of this exploration of antagonist which will be the nature.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:32:05]</small> <span title="1:32:05 - 1:32:14">And we'll be here just in case someone watch anything will be looking at all is lost the grey and Contagion.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:32:14]</small> <span title="1:32:14 - 1:32:18">Should I jump in and save you.</span> <span title="1:32:18 - 1:32:30">As always super duper thanks to our Patron support is there what is getting us to try this new format so that we can get more draught 02 you more frequently and in particular thanks to.</span> <span title="1:32:31 - 1:32:36">Call Sandra Rob Chris yokum and crab.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:32:36]</small> <span title="1:32:36 - 1:32:39">You guys rule.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:32:39]</small> <span title="1:32:39 - 1:32:49">See you I'm going to say see you next week that's a complete lie more likely to be three weeks but that's better than a normal release.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:32:49]</small> <span title="1:32:49 - 1:32:55">And it can't wait until then to ground for back matter where we discussed mind Hunter and Steve Jobs movie.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:32:56]</small> <span title="1:32:56 - 1:33:06">I hope you all feel like arguing with either Stu or myself about anything on this episode or anything in general and you can find many ways of getting in touch with us at our website at draught,</span> <span title="1:33:06 - 1:33:08">hyphen xero.com.</span> <span title="1:33:08 - 1:33:16">At the website you also find the show notes for this and all our other episodes as well as links to support us and spread the word for free,</span> <span title="1:33:16 - 1:33:31">via a rating and review on Apple podcast very important for spreading the word or if you think that what we do here is worth a dollar or preferably more than a dollar then you can also find links to our Patron page to support us,</span> <span title="1:33:31 - 1:33:40">getting these episodes to you quicker thanks and thanks for listening and now for back matter.</span> 
## Mindhunter {#chapter}

**Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:33:41]</small> <span title="1:33:41 - 1:33:45">I'm in a tangential eyes briefly.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:33:44]</small> <span title="1:33:44 - 1:33:46">Yes.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:33:46]</small> <span title="1:33:46 - 1:33:59">Traffic this is another good example they found that does this which is what I was watching monster right this was the first time I watched it was for this and I can't help but having watched mindhunter last year was one of the best ones I saw last year.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:34:01]</small> <span title="1:34:01 - 1:34:03">A 10 hour movie.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:34:04]</small> <span title="1:34:04 - 1:34:14">40 years ago your FBI was founded hunting down John Dillinger now we have extreme violence between strangers.</span> <span title="1:34:15 - 1:34:16">Or are they formed.</span> <span title="1:34:16 - 1:34:30">Psychopaths I'm convinced there's nothing wrong with them so she's been officially impossible to study that you were found a way in near perfect laboratory conditions lol that's what makes this so exciting potentially so far reaching,</span> <span title="1:34:30 - 1:34:39">thighs rub off on me the weather few sex with women it is not our god the commiserate with his people it is our job to electrocute them,</span> <span title="1:34:39 - 1:34:44">like everything we do but talking to serial killers,</span> <span title="1:34:43 - 1:34:51">in terminology I'm trying to warn you your attitude is going to bite you in the ass to the ruining peoples lives,</span> <span title="1:34:51 - 1:35:02">you developing a pattern of behaviour that will not say standing here before you leave I can help you.</span> <span title="1:35:02 - 1:35:04">You can't get in the dirt with the pigs.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:35:05]</small> <span title="1:35:05 - 1:35:14">Bill tench does my partner home food from the Federal Bureau of Investigations behavioral science unit we do a research interviewing man like you.</span> <span title="1:35:14 - 1:35:21">Certainly our goal is to be preemptive with the FBI all them that is not home yet.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:35:22]</small> <span title="1:35:22 - 1:35:35">The reason I wanted to bring a mindhunter because this was any Sting Tower, I want to go into detail but felt like what was interesting about mindhunter is it the antagonist over the course of the show I have chain.</span> <span title="1:35:36 - 1:35:45">Right which is that at the beginning of the film out of the show EH Holden.</span> <span title="1:35:45 - 1:35:56">Is kind of NBN take us to hold in his obstacle really is obstacle is the FBI self like him wanting them to modernise.</span> <span title="1:35:56 - 1:36:03">And Bill tench is kind of the like a person applied antagonist of the FBI.</span> <span title="1:36:03 - 1:36:07">All tickle his boss the shepherd is his name.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:36:06]</small> <span title="1:36:06 - 1:36:21">Yeah I would say the boss more so I definitely tench is an external antagonist in external human antagonist but it's more in the late buddy cop kind of thing two different people thrown together on a road trip and how they rub off on each other so.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:36:20]</small> <span title="1:36:20 - 1:36:23">And they're all these all these forces and challenging Holden.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:36:23]</small> <span title="1:36:23 - 1:36:29">I mean I would say EH Holden challenges change more than Kent tench challenges Holden.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:36:29]</small> <span title="1:36:29 - 1:36:37">Even in the Mist the kind of how they use Debbie's Gulf like his girlfriend is it just in case she is.</span> <span title="1:36:37 - 1:36:45">You know kind of like almost a cappuccino manic pixie dream girl in the context of a Serial of a finches,</span> <span title="1:36:45 - 1:36:52">show where she is there to enable Holden to become the,</span> <span title="1:36:52 - 1:37:01">hegel science cuz she opens up his eyes to kinda villains in psychology but it's because obviously each each episode structurally is about a,</span> <span title="1:37:01 - 1:37:10">almost each episode is about a difference you're killing and they are the antagonist within same but ultimately where the show goes is that Holden in a way,</span> <span title="1:37:10 - 1:37:23">is the idea that you almost what it's trying to say is that to catch a psychopath you need to be a psychopath that Holden's and they make an earlier comment about serial killing it's actually Wendy Carr he does it.</span> <span title="1:37:24 - 1:37:31">That psychopathy manifests in different ways and serial killing is one way.</span> <span title="1:37:32 - 1:37:39">Psychopathy manifests but not the only one stocks a business and to me what is she's actually talking about is holding.</span> <span title="1:37:40 - 1:37:43">That's kind of a thematic I did that Holden has become.</span> <span title="1:37:43 - 1:37:57">Come if not always been kind of a psychopath and he's obsessed with the project that people around you can kinda tend to have emotions but people are only there to enable him which is why I think which change the kind of relationship to the girlfriend,</span> <span title="1:37:56 - 1:38:01">a little bit because you go you only seeing him how he sees her which is.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:38:02]</small> <span title="1:38:02 - 1:38:15">A tool to enable himself and then the B series filmed ultimately ends with him kind of collapsing in a panic attack at the end because he's actually actually knowing mint camper,</span> <span title="1:38:16 - 1:38:25">say that we like doesn't keep it more or less a we ever say he doesn't hold you or me end of the year you and me where to say.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:38:24]</small> <span title="1:38:24 - 1:38:26">Belarc.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:38:25]</small> <span title="1:38:25 - 1:38:34">About what right but I think the difference is this electric simile into Monster for is not self aware.</span> <span title="1:38:34 - 1:38:46">I might shame where he is Brandon and Shane Brandon is a where it is addiction but doesn't see this problem Richard in Little Miss Sunshine doesn't but I think it is even more.</span> <span title="1:38:46 - 1:38:54">Oblivious to himself so the upskill he needs overcome is himself but a forces of change are external.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:38:54]</small> <span title="1:38:54 - 1:39:02">Yeah yeah absolutely what I say as I mean look at they got the luxury of 10 hours to tell their story.</span> <span title="1:39:02 - 1:39:11">So they do dramatise his change towards being the antagonist of the show as well as the protagonist.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:39:11]</small> <span title="1:39:11 - 1:39:13">Yes it can't be OK yeah.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:39:13]</small> <span title="1:39:13 - 1:39:18">Is because they have overtime you know initially he has Allah is like tench is his,</span> <span title="1:39:18 - 1:39:27">hello his girlfriend is his Ally he's winning over these serial killers and they see him as a friend everyone looks at him favorably,</span> <span title="1:39:27 - 1:39:37">and it's only as his actions it starts with the him getting involved like it starts with him getting cocky and arrogant with the finding of that.</span> <span title="1:39:37 - 1:39:47">Where they were they sold one murder but then it's really his involvement with that school headmaster where he sees the impacts of his.</span> <span title="1:39:48 - 1:39:53">Of his metalink and does not get affected by it.</span> <span title="1:39:54 - 1:40:07">And you know it it impacts on his relationship such that his girlfriend breaks up with him he's getting problems with tench and even Shepard who's been the classic antagonist start seeming like he's making sense,</span> <span title="1:40:07 - 1:40:11">so that they got the luxury of time to convert him into.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:40:12]</small> <span title="1:40:12 - 1:40:15">Those went and seen it and are happy to be spoilt.</span> <span title="1:40:17 - 1:40:23">In my mind Hunter there's basically a teacher whose baby with children is very questionable at best.</span> <span title="1:40:23 - 1:40:34">And he becomes involved for becomes involved with the school with this principle waves and he basically advisors the school too.</span> <span title="1:40:34 - 1:40:44">Drop in because he's considered a threat to the kids that this inappropriate pinching could lead to something else tickling.</span> <span title="1:40:44 - 1:40:57">And he ends up in finder many and the wife of this guy comes around and says it was in a harmless you I dare you and you completely Unapologetic by human.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:40:56]</small> <span title="1:40:56 - 1:41:03">You later see the that you see you the Pam isolator like drunk and wandering the streets the principal.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:41:05]</small> <span title="1:41:05 - 1:41:07">Headmaster such a British term.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:41:08]</small> <span title="1:41:08 - 1:41:15">Hahaha sorry you get to get your he gets more more again he becomes he he.</span> <span title="1:41:15 - 1:41:29">Promote stay we duck the transfer but there's always think yeah he becomes more and more the villain do I need to use the word and take us because more more the villain to the other characters but ultimately he's undermining himself is undermining his own purpose.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:41:29]</small> <span title="1:41:29 - 1:41:36">And it's and it's his lack of it basically the audience is giving an insight into his personality that he does not see.</span> <span title="1:41:36 - 1:41:45">So he starts becoming the obstacles to his own journey his own want is to you no bring behavioural analysis.</span> <span title="1:41:45 - 1:41:57">And behaviour profiling into the FBI to update it to save people like he has all these ultra sick intentions that he's seen early on is this altruistic Boy Scout and then it gets to the point where it's about him.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:41:57]</small> <span title="1:41:57 - 1:41:58">His fame.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:41:58]</small> <span title="1:41:58 - 1:42:03">And he's working against his own interest and he cannot see that.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:42:02]</small> <span title="1:42:02 - 1:42:09">You got it so it's not just that he's becoming a psychopath a part of these you want the answer me back like Tempo wants.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:42:07]</small> <span title="1:42:07 - 1:42:21">And that's what I mean is that he becomes the antagonist because not just is he the antagonist to the other characters but he's the obstacle to his own objectives.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:42:21]</small> <span title="1:42:21 - 1:42:29">And I think that is something not dissimilar to the Steve Jobs movie which also has very three very clear axe.</span> 
## Steve Jobs {#chapter}

**Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:42:29]</small> <span title="1:42:29 - 1:42:33">Musicians play their instruments of the orchestra.</span> <span title="1:42:33 - 1:42:40">I hear the worse than usual this morning I didn't think that was possible it's a system error fix it fix it.</span> <span title="1:42:40 - 1:42:45">Another picture of a Daytona to second.</span> <span title="1:42:45 - 1:42:50">When we went universe was created the 3rd of that time as well someday you'll have to tell us how you did.</span> <span title="1:42:51 - 1:42:58">See how this reminds you of a friendly face it's warm and it's playful and inviting and it needs to say hello,</span> <span title="1:42:58 - 1:43:15">if you keep alienating people for no reason don't be no one left for a to say hello to your Apple stock was 441 million dollars but your daughter and welfare must be able to see the she looks like you,</span> <span title="1:43:15 - 1:43:22">Rodger instaboard make make people miserable if that we're true.</span> <span title="1:43:22 - 1:43:43">Was talking to the fire Marshall in the building manager at her going to come in and tell everyone to leave before it causes just appear to be on my texts it's Philippine well worth it for those with River.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:43:49]</small> <span title="1:43:49 - 1:44:01">Again it feels like that the journey of that film is that he realised by the end of the day by the third act it's more him become his own internal obstacle like I mean he's definitely.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:44:00]</small> <span title="1:44:00 - 1:44:06">Well he's there it's always like an arc of awesome because he's not the obstacle he's Disick.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:44:04]</small> <span title="1:44:04 - 1:44:07">It is feedback of Awesome.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:44:06]</small> <span title="1:44:06 - 1:44:15">He's he's been you know was yeah exactly by not ever changing.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:44:15]</small> <span title="1:44:15 - 1:44:25">So he could have to change relationship to his daughter and that's kind of how it's dramatized no you're wrong it's actually a selfie on all because I mean it is in that he's there he is.</span> <span title="1:44:27 - 1:44:39">Crime in reality distortion field is mostly manifest his relationship with his daughter Lisa and his inability to accepted she his daughter and that happens at the end of the.</span> <span title="1:44:40 - 1:44:40">Michelle.</span> <span title="1:44:41 - 1:44:55">And I'm eating in some ways that some of the Shane structure this clear the forces then take his in his dead drops it really other people there related to make a Steve Wozniak the least brand story his old where it is the pizza guy.</span> <span title="1:44:56 - 1:45:02">John Sculley beer all people that are challenging him but they're all changing him on the basis of who we use.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:45:02]</small> <span title="1:45:02 - 1:45:06">Yeah the challenging him but his his job is to resist him.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:45:07]</small> <span title="1:45:07 - 1:45:16">That's finished dinner here is it them but their antagonists could have grown out of who were you.</span> <span title="1:45:17 - 1:45:20">They are quite like their his monsters.</span> <span title="1:45:20 - 1:45:26">All his Ghosts really like this is two jobs in a way is kind of like a Christmas carol,</span> <span title="1:45:26 - 1:45:38">you know Ghosts of History past I may I actually wonder if there is an analysis in that that history past is like a Steve Wozniak history present is probably no I accidentally so early because you passed,</span> <span title="1:45:38 - 1:45:48">Steve Wozniak is repair there is any very similar in that structure that is his goes to his past is anything him and no the forces of antagonism Grove from him.</span> <span title="1:45:48 - 1:45:55">And he is he's like he's just arrogant.</span> <span title="1:45:56 - 1:45:58">But the thing is he was like.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:45:58]</small> <span title="1:45:58 - 1:46:02">Where is a lack of relation to other people I think.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:46:02]</small> <span title="1:46:02 - 1:46:08">Or I should know I think is probably meant probably find the quote ultimately it's the idea that you can be a genius and around to be an arsehole.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:46:08]</small> <span title="1:46:08 - 1:46:21">People used to ask me what the difference was between me and Steve Jobs I would say Steve was the big picture guy and I like the solid workbench when people ask me what the difference is now I say.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:46:22]</small> <span title="1:46:22 - 1:46:29">Your product you're better than you are a brother that's the idea brother and knowing that that's the difference.</span> <span title="1:46:31 - 1:46:37">It's not binary you can be decent and gifted at the same time.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:46:37]</small> <span title="1:46:37 - 1:46:42">That's the the Steve job job thing is he correlated being.</span> <span title="1:46:43 - 1:46:53">If I'm smart arse hole the people they will perform their for being an arsehole is good and that can I be bad listen to people talking Steve Jobs as opposed to all what he had to say about design.</span> **Chas Fisher:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:46:53]</small> <span title="1:46:53 - 1:46:58">But is that is that what the movie Steve Jobs were saying.</span> **Stu Willis:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:46:59]</small> <span title="1:46:59 - 1:47:08">I'll have to watch again I think that is possibly in a sack to get the feeling that he's a lot nicer to the people around him with what was there again.</span> **Excerpts:** <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:47:09]</small> <span title="1:47:09 - 1:47:19">You know what this is good for what computer ugly so you know what it's so far I'm sorry I said that about that I make it so what I really think the office 04.</span> <span title="1:47:20 - 1:47:26">Local integrated system architecture I was 5 we could use light.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:47:28]</small> <span title="1:47:28 - 1:47:37">Bushland Avenue Auckland grade system architecture don't be mean anything I do see it was in office years.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:47:40]</small> <span title="1:47:40 - 1:47:46">Now I can go now I do say you are my father.</span> <small style="opacity: 0.5;">[1:47:50]</small> <span title="1:47:50 - 1:47:51">I'm poorly made.</span>  